Let us begin by seeing how we can read the content of a text file with this API.
For this example,
we have a text file here, which is sonnet 1 by William
Shakespeare, a very nice text, and a class called
ReadingFiles with a main method in it.
The first thing, of course, we need to do is to create a path variable.
And I'm going to use this of factory method, passing the path to this
file in a relative way, files/sonnet‑UTF8.txt. The first thing that we
might do is to check in this path exists.
And for that, we have these Files factory class with a bunch of
methods in it, and we're going to use this exists method. Let us
put the result in a variable and just print it out. Run this code.
And indeed, this file is found.
This path does exist on the disk.
You can check that if I mess up with the name here,
we should have Exists = false, which is expected.
So let us now open this file. For that we have this factory method on
the Files factory class called newBufferedReader. Pass a path as a
parameter. We're just going to say that,
yes,
I want for the moment to throw the exception. Put the results in a
variable. Let me call it reader. And at the end of the day,
we absolutely need to call the close method on that reader
because it is a resource given by the system.
Now this pattern calling close by hand is not the right pattern to use.
In fact, starting with Java 7, we have a try with resource pattern,
which is the following.
We just write this try‑catch manually, pass the opening of the reader as
a parameter to the try block. Here we are going to write our business
code and just catch the exception because throwing the exception from
the main method should not be done.
And here we can just print the stack trace of this exception.
Thanks to the use of this try with resource pattern, we have the guarantee
that the reader will be closed when we exit this try block.
And now from here, we can just call the readLine method,
which is going to read a single line.
Let me print out this line. I'll run this code, and, indeed,
we have the first line of the sonnet, which is printed.
Now if we want to read all the sonnet, we can do that.
Let us check the documentation of this readLine method.
And it says that if it returns null, it means that the
file has been completely reached.
So we just need to add a while loop here.
And while this line is not null,
we can just print it out and then read the next line, and that's it.
With this pattern, we are going to read the whole content of the file, which is what we wanted to do.